{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Notes for the report:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Check Using ABM to inform policy for complex domains - introduction - it speaks about the use of ABM in CAS.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}The first sub-question should be answered within the reflection of the first part of the report.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}The discussion and analysis should be a summary of what was discussed in the report itself and not contain new material.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
What still needs to go somewhere in the report:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The current conceptualisation considers that the beliefs of the agents are obtained linearly. In reality, linearity is all but likely. It will be easier to convince an actor with a mild belief than an actor with an extreme belief. this is likely to affect the results of the model when considering the policy learning mechanism. This is a modification that could be added later on in the model. This is also related to the devil shift \\citep\{zahariadis2014ambiguity\}.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The approach taken for the modelling of the policy network can also be mentioned as a limitation. The policy network will be approximated as a trust network which is a crude simplification of complex personal relations that actors might maintain with each other. This also relates to the fact that the model does not consider agents at the individual level. The agent's personal decision are not model by design. This could mildly affect the results as decision made by agents are not always entirely within the policy arena but can be influenced by private matters or political ambitions.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The fact that the literature is mostly based on United States policymaking process skews a little the model and might make it more applicable to the North American political system.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Within the model, the agents' advocacy issues are not updated after each action. This theoretically means that at some point in a tick they could be advocating for an issue that is not the highest on their preference list. This is deemed to be a small computational trade-off to limit the amount of times updates have to be performed.\
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\
}